README.md, before:

[![FivexL](https://releases.fivexl.io/fivexlbannergit.jpg)](https://fivexl.io/)

# Why LProbe?
A command-line tool to perform Local Health Check Probes inside Container Images (ECS, Docker, Kubernetes). When your container gets breached, the intruder/attacker can use tools like wget or curl to download more tools for further exploitation and lateral movement within your system. Thus we developed LProbe as wget/curl replacement for hardened and secure container images.

## HOW TO
### Local run
```shell
./lprobe -port=8080 -endpoint=/
```

### Local run for gRPC
```shell
./lprobe -port=8080 -mode=grpc
```

### Add to a container image
You can bundle the statically compiled LProbe in your container image. Choose a binary release and download it in your Dockerfile:
```
ARG LPROBE_VERSION=v0.0.6
ARG TARGETPLATFORM
RUN case ${TARGETPLATFORM} in \
         "linux/amd64")  LPROBE_ARCH=amd64  ;; \
         "linux/arm64")  LPROBE_ARCH=arm64  ;; \
    esac \
 && wget -qO/bin/lprobe https://github.com/fivexl/lprobe/releases/download/${LPROBE_VERSION}/lprobe-linux-${LPROBE_ARCH} \
 && chmod +x /bin/lprobe \
 && rm -f /usr/bin/wget
```

### Add to a container image from lprobe containter
```
FROM scratch
COPY --from=ghcr.io/fivexl/lprobe:0.0.6 /lprobe /bin/lprobe
```

### Docker Healthcheck 
```
HEALTHCHECK --interval=15s --timeout=5s --start-period=5s --retries=3 CMD [ "lprobe", "-mode=http", "-port=8080", "-endpoint=/healthz" ]
```

### ECS Healthcheck 
```
[ "CMD", "lprobe", "-port=8080", "-endpoint=/healthz"]
```

### Kubernetes (k8S) Healthcheck
```
spec:
  containers:
  - name: server
    image: "[YOUR-DOCKER-IMAGE]"
    ports:
    - containerPort: 8080
    readinessProbe:
      exec:
        command: ["/bin/lprobe", "-port=8080", "-endpoint=/readiness"]
      initialDelaySeconds: 5
    livenessProbe:
      exec:
        command: ["/bin/lprobe", "-port=8080", "-endpoint=/liveness"]
      initialDelaySeconds: 10
```

### It is possible to use Lprobe as mounted volume 

To use Lprobe via volume mounts, you need to download the Lprobe binary and place it in the volume. Here is how you can do it:

1. Download the Lprobe binary:
```
wget -qO ./Lprobe https://github.com/fivexl/lprobe/releases/download/v0.1.5/lprobe-linux-amd64
chmod +x ./Lprobe
```

2. Update your Docker Compose file to mount the Lprobe binary:
```
services:
  nginx:
    image: nginx:latest
    volumes:
      - ./Lprobe:/Lprobe
    healthcheck:
      test: /Lprobe -mode=http -port=80 -endpoint=/
      interval: 60s
      retries: 3
      start_period: 10s
      timeout: 3s
```

# Dev Guide
```
export GO111MODULE=on
go mod init lprobe
go mod tidy
go run .
```

```
go mod edit -go=1.21
go get -u -t -x ./...
go mod tidy
```

# Source code used
- https://github.com/grpc-ecosystem/grpc-health-probe



## Weekly review link

- [Review](https://github.com/fivexl/lprobe/compare/main@%7B7day%7D...main)
- [Review branch-based review](https://github.com/fivexl/lprobe/compare/review...main)

Commit message:

Revise README with new banner and subscription info
Updated banner image and added newsletter subscription details.

README.md, after:

[![FivexL](https://releases.fivexl.io/fivexlbannergit_new.png)](https://fivexl.io/#email-subscription)

### Want practical AWS infrastructure insights?

👉 [Subscribe to our newsletter](https://fivexl.io/#email-subscription) to get:

- Real stories from real AWS projects  
- No-nonsense DevOps tactics  
- Cost, security & compliance patterns that actually work  
- Expert guidance from engineers in the field

=========================================================================

# Why LProbe?
A command-line tool to perform Local Health Check Probes inside Container Images (ECS, Docker, Kubernetes). When your container gets breached, the intruder/attacker can use tools like wget or curl to download more tools for further exploitation and lateral movement within your system. Thus we developed LProbe as wget/curl replacement for hardened and secure container images.

## HOW TO
### Local run
```shell
./lprobe -port=8080 -endpoint=/
```

### Local run for gRPC
```shell
./lprobe -port=8080 -mode=grpc
```

### Add to a container image
You can bundle the statically compiled LProbe in your container image. Choose a binary release and download it in your Dockerfile:
```
ARG LPROBE_VERSION=v0.0.6
ARG TARGETPLATFORM
RUN case ${TARGETPLATFORM} in \
         "linux/amd64")  LPROBE_ARCH=amd64  ;; \
         "linux/arm64")  LPROBE_ARCH=arm64  ;; \
    esac \
 && wget -qO/bin/lprobe https://github.com/fivexl/lprobe/releases/download/${LPROBE_VERSION}/lprobe-linux-${LPROBE_ARCH} \
 && chmod +x /bin/lprobe \
 && rm -f /usr/bin/wget
```

### Add to a container image from lprobe containter
```
FROM scratch
COPY --from=ghcr.io/fivexl/lprobe:0.0.6 /lprobe /bin/lprobe
```

### Docker Healthcheck 
```
HEALTHCHECK --interval=15s --timeout=5s --start-period=5s --retries=3 CMD [ "lprobe", "-mode=http", "-port=8080", "-endpoint=/healthz" ]
```

### ECS Healthcheck 
```
[ "CMD", "lprobe", "-port=8080", "-endpoint=/healthz"]
```

### Kubernetes (k8S) Healthcheck
```
spec:
  containers:
  - name: server
    image: "[YOUR-DOCKER-IMAGE]"
    ports:
    - containerPort: 8080
    readinessProbe:
      exec:
        command: ["/bin/lprobe", "-port=8080", "-endpoint=/readiness"]
      initialDelaySeconds: 5
    livenessProbe:
      exec:
        command: ["/bin/lprobe", "-port=8080", "-endpoint=/liveness"]
      initialDelaySeconds: 10
```

### It is possible to use Lprobe as mounted volume 

To use Lprobe via volume mounts, you need to download the Lprobe binary and place it in the volume. Here is how you can do it:

1. Download the Lprobe binary:
```
wget -qO ./Lprobe https://github.com/fivexl/lprobe/releases/download/v0.1.5/lprobe-linux-amd64
chmod +x ./Lprobe
```

2. Update your Docker Compose file to mount the Lprobe binary:
```
services:
  nginx:
    image: nginx:latest
    volumes:
      - ./Lprobe:/Lprobe
    healthcheck:
      test: /Lprobe -mode=http -port=80 -endpoint=/
      interval: 60s
      retries: 3
      start_period: 10s
      timeout: 3s
```

# Dev Guide
```
export GO111MODULE=on
go mod init lprobe
go mod tidy
go run .
```

```
go mod edit -go=1.21
go get -u -t -x ./...
go mod tidy
```

# Source code used
- https://github.com/grpc-ecosystem/grpc-health-probe



## Weekly review link

- [Review](https://github.com/fivexl/lprobe/compare/main@%7B7day%7D...main)
- [Review branch-based review](https://github.com/fivexl/lprobe/compare/review...main)
